---
title: Reading Notes on Core Java 7th edition. (Volume I)
date: 2020-09-16 10:41:53
category: 
- Reading Notes
tags:
- Java
---

# Why This passage?
I' m learning Java these days, so this passage is just a quick memo. Content in this passage is mainly based on Core Java 7th edition. (Volume I).  
Note: It is **not a tutorial**, it is for those who have **primary understanding** on Java.  
Lastly, I believe you will also learn something useful in this passage!

# Reading Notes

## Chapter 1, 2
(Seems nothing important)  

## Chapter 3
**Data types**
- Like C/C++, Java use `""` for strings.  
- number notation: suffix `L/l` for long integer, prefix `0` for octal number, `0x/0X` for hexadecimal, `0b/0B` for binary (after Java 7).
- cannot convert between integers and boolean values. So C-style snippets such as `int x = 1; if(x) {...}` is not supported.

**Variables and Constants**
- java use `final` keyword for *constant variables*.

**Operators**
- integer division by 0 raises an exception, whereas floating-point division by 0 yields an infinite or NaN result.
- a cast (auto promote) will happen implicitly when carry out a binary operation such as `+`.
- Don't use `==` to test equality of two Strings (and surely any Objects, as we will see later)

**Arrays**
- simply assign an array to another will lead two variable point to same array object. Use `Array.copyOf()` instead.
- Use `System.out.println(Arrays.deepToString(arr));` to print a nested array (an array with 2 or more dimensions)

## Chapter 4
**Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming**
- Try to minimize the number of classes that depend on each other. In software engineering terminology, minimize the *coupling* between classes.
   
**Using Predefined Classes**
- There is an important difference between objects and object variables. for example, `Date deadline` defines an object variable but the variable `deadline` is not an object.
   
**Defining Your Own Classes**
- The name of the `public` class must exactly match the file name.
- There can be at most one `public` class in a java source file.
- The constructor can only be called in conjunction with the `new` operator. You can’t apply a constructor to an existing object to reset the instance fields.
- A constructor has no return value
- Be careful not to introduce local variables with the same names as the instance fields.
- Unlike Python explicitly use `self` parameter, `this` is implicate in java methods.
- It is not compulsory to use `this` as long as no name duplicate, but it will increase readability。
- Note that the `var` keyword can only be used with *local* variables inside methods. You must always declare the types of parameters and fields.
- Be careful not to write accessor methods that return references to mutable objects.If you need to return a reference to a mutable object, you should clone it first. A clone is an exact copy of an object stored in a new location. **As a rule of thumb, always use `clone` whenever you need to return a copy of a mutable field.**
- A method can access the private features of any object of its class, not just of the implicit parameter.
- The `final` modifier is particularly useful for fields whose type is *primitive* or an *immutable* class. (A class is immutable if none of its methods ever mutate its objects.)
- The `final` keyword merely means that the object reference stored in that variable will never again refer to a different  object. But the object itself can be mutated. (This is kind of like a *const pointer* in C)
  
**Static Fields and Methods**
- If you define a field as `static`, then there is only one such field per class. In contrast, each object has its own copy of nonstatic instance fields.
- Every class can have a `main` method. But only the one you used as program entry will be invoked. 

**Method Parameters**
- The Java programming language *always* uses call by value. It is further explained that:
  - A method cannot modify a parameter of a primitive type (that is, numbers or `boolean` values). 
  - A method can change the *state* of an object parameter. 
  - A method cannot make an object parameter refer to a new object.

**Object Construction**
- Please keep in mind that you get a "free" no-argument constructor only when your class has no other constructors. 
- field initialization is carried out before any constructor executes.
- If you don’t set a field explicitly in a constructor, it is automatically set to a default value: numbers to 0, `boolean` values to false, and object references to null.
- use `this(args)` in a constructor to invoke another constructor.
- Class declarations can contain arbitrary *initialization blocks* . These blocks are executed whenever an object of that class is constructed.
- Although Java has GC, some objects utilize a resource other than memory, such as a file or a handle to another object that uses system resources. In this case, it is important that the resource be reclaimed and recycled when it is no longer needed.

**Packages**
- You can only use the * notation to import a single package.
- Features tagged as `public `can be used by any class. If you don’t specify either `public`or `private`, the feature (that is, the class, method, or variable) can be accessed by all methods in the same package.

**Documentation Comments**
- The class comment must be placed after any import statements, directly before the class definition.
- The class comment must be placed after any import statements, directly before the class definition.
- Place the class, method, and variable comments directly into the Java source files, delimited by `/** . . . */` documentation comments. However, to generate package comments, you need to add a separate file in each package directory.

**Class Design Hints**

- Always keep data private.
- Always initialize data.
- Don’t use too many basic types in a class.
- Break up classes that have too many responsibilities.
- Prefer immutable classes.
